MS-900
Module 1: Introduction to Microsoft 365 Admin Center
The Microsoft 365 admin center is where you manage your business in the cloud. You can complete tasks such as adding and removing users, changing licenses, and resetting passwords. Here are the features and settings you'll find in the left-hand navigation of the admin center.

Home: This is the landing page in the admin center. Here you'll see where to manage users, billing, service health, and reports.

Users: From here you can create and manage users in your organization, like employees or students. You can also set their permission level or reset their passwords.

Groups: Create and manage groups in your organization, such as a Microsoft 365 group, distribution group, security group, or shared mailbox.

Resources: Create and manage resources, like a SharePoint site collection.

Billing: View purchase, or cancel subscriptions for your organization. View past billing statements or view the number of assigned licenses to individual users.

Support: You can view existing service requests or create new ones.

Settings: Manage global settings for apps like email, sites, and the Office suite. Change your password policy and expiration date. Add and update domain names like contoso.com. Change your organization profile and release preferences. And choose whether partners can access your admin center.

Setup: Manage existing domains, turn on and manage multi-factor authentication, manage admin access, migrate user mailboxes to Office 365, manage feature updates, and help users install their Office apps

Reports: See at a glance how your organization is using Microsoft 365 with detailed reports on email use, Office activations, and more.

Health: View the service health at a glance. You can also check out more details and the service health history.

Admin centers: Open separate admin centers for Exchange, Skype for Business, SharePoint, Yammer, and Azure AD. Each admin center includes all available settings for that service.

Exercise 1: Admin Experience for User Management
In this exercise, you will learn how to create users, assign a license to the users, verify custom domains in the tenant, and see how to access other admin centers.

Task 1: Admin Experience for User Management
In this task, you will learn how to create and manage users from Microsoft Admin Center.

Open a new browser window and log in to the admin center at https://admin.microsoft.com.

When prompted, use the credentials provided in the Environment Details page to login to the admin center.

From the navigation menu, click on the Users icon and click on Active users. This will display the list of active users.



From the navigation menu, click on the Teams & Groups icon and click on Active teams & groups. This will display a list of all the groups that are created.



Now to create a new user, from the navigation menu click on Users icon and click on Active users, and then select Add a user icon.



In the Set up the basics pane, fill the following details, and then select Next.

First name: Odl.

Display Name: Odl_User-DeploymentId.

Username: Odl.



Automatically create a password: unselected.

Password: Password.1!!

Require this user to change their password when they first sign in : unselected



In the Assign product licenses pane, choose your location from the select location dropdown. In the licenses section, choose Assign user a product license and select office 365 E5 license. Click Next.



In the Optional settings pane, leave everything as default and click on Next.



In the Review and Finish pane, review the new user's settings and click on Finish adding, then Close.



Verify that the user has been created successfully. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the left navigation pane, select Users and select Active users. The new user should be listed, along with their assigned license.

Task 2: Verify Custom Domains in the tenant [Read-Only]
In this task, you will verify Custom Domains in the tenant and add a new domain to the tenant.

To verify the custom domains, from the navigation pane click on show all, select Settings and choose Domains.



All the available domains can be found here. We can also purchase new domains or add any existing domain from the Domains page.

To add a domain Select Add domain. Enter the name of the domain as myspektra.com , then select Use this domain.





On Domain verification page choose how you want to verify that you own the domain. Select Add a TXT record to the domain's DNS records and click on Continue.



Now in Verify your domain page copy the TXT name and TXT value.

Go to your domain's registrar or DNS hosting provider, go to the DNS management page of your domain and click on + Record set. Under Name paste the TXT name and under Value paste TXT value you copied earlier and in type select TXT. Once done click on Ok.



Wait for the recordset to be created. Switch back to the admin center, click on Verify and select Continue.

On Add DNS records page follow the instructions and click on Continue.



Select Ok when the domain setup is complete.



On the domains page you can see the newly added domain.



To learn more about managing domains from Microsoft admin center refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/admin/get-help-with-domains/what-is-a-domain?view=o365-worldwide

Task 3: Access other admin centers
In this task, you will learn how to access other admin centers from Microsoft Admin Center.

To access other admin centers, from the navigation pane select Admin centers and choose all All Admin centers. Opens a page with a full list of Office 365 admin centers, including admin centers for OneDrive, Yammer Enterprise, Dynamics 365, Power Apps, Skype for business, and other services.





In the admin center page select Exchange. This will redirect you to the Exchange admin center page.

If below image page occur, click on New Exchange admin center. This will redirect you to the new Exchange admin center page.



From here you can manage email settings for your organization. In the left-hand menu explore through the options available

Recipients - View and manage your mailboxes (both user and shared mailboxes), groups, resource mailboxes, and contacts.

Mail flow - Manage remote domains and accepted domains, add connectors, trace messages and manage alert and alert policies.

Migration - Migrate mailboxes in batches.

Reports - View reports on mail flow and migration batches.

Insights - Use the recommendations to discover trends and/or insights, and take actions to fix issues related to mailbox and mail flow.



Switch back to the admin centers page, select SharePoint. This will redirect you to the Sharepoint admin center page.



From here you can manage site collections, list and library permissions, file storage and sharing. Explore through the options available in SharePoint admin center.



In the same way you can access and explore through all other admin centers available.

Exercise 2: Explore Microsoft 365 Apps
In the previous exercise, you created a user and assigned an office 365 E5 license. In this exercise, you will log in with the newly created user and explore through office365 apps.

Task 1: Explore Outlook
Microsoft Outlook is an application that is used mainly to send and receive emails. It can also be used to manage various types of personal data including calendar appointments and similar entries, tasks, contacts, and notes.

Now login with the newly created user. Open a new browser window and log in to the office365 center at https://www.office.com.

When prompted enter the username and password of the user that you created in the previous step.

Note: You can get the username by clicking on Users and then Active users from the navigation menu. In the Active Users pane note down the username for your newly created user

From the top right corner click on App launcher

Under Apps, select Outlook and from Open context menu click on Open in new tab. This will redirect you to the outlook mail.



On the outlook page, choose New message to send a new mail. Enter a name or email address in the To, Cc, or Bcc field. In Subject, type the subject of the email message. Place the cursor in the body of the email message, and then start typing. After typing your message, choose Send.



From the left-hand menu select Calendar. From here you can create appointments, events, organize meetings and view group schedules.



Now Select People, you can use the People page to view, create, edit, find, and delete contacts. You can use your contacts for your reference, and can automatically add them as recipients when you compose an email message.



From the left-hand menu you can explore all other options available.

Task 2: Explore OneDrive
OneDrive gives you one place to store, share, and sync your work or school files. As part of your organization's Microsoft 365 subscription, you can save your files in OneDrive and then work with them from almost any device, share files with others, give others permission to edit files and work on them at the same time.

Switch back to the user account and from App launcher under Apps, select OneDrive. From Open context menu click on Open in new tab. This will redirect you to the OneDrive page, from here you can manage all your files.





Now we will try to create a folder and upload files to it. On the OneDrive page click on New and select the Folder option, when prompted provide a name for your folder and click on Create.





Now select the newly created folder. From the top navigation bar select, Upload and select Files, when prompted choose the file(s) that you want to upload.



Select the new file that you have uploaded, click on the Show actions icon. This will display the list of actions that can be performed.



On the OneDrive page select the file or folder you want to share by selecting the circle in the upper corner of the item. Select Share at the top of the page.



Select Anyone with the link can edit to customize the link option. Set the options you want on your link, then select Apply when you're done.



Anyone: Gives access to anyone who receives this link, whether they receive it directly from you or forwarded from someone else. This may include people outside of your organization.

People in (Your Organization): Gives access to anyone in your organization who has the link access to the file.

People with existing access: Provides a link that can be used by people who already have access to the file or folder. It does not change the permissions on the item. Use this if you just want to send a link to somebody who already has access.

Specific people: Gives access only to the people you specify, although other people may already have access.

Allow editing: select if you want others to be able to edit the file. Uncheck it if you only want others to be able to view the file.

Set expiration date: The link will only work until the date you set. After that, the link will be invalid, and you will need to create a new link for users requiring access to your file or folder.

Set password: When a user clicks the link, they will be prompted to enter a password before they can access the file. You'll need to provide this password separately to users.



Once you're back at the main Share box enter a name or email of users with whom you intend to share the file, click on Send. You can also select Copy Link to copy the link to your clipboard and share it.



You can explore through other options available in the OneDrive.

Task 3: Explore yammer
With yammer people can openly connect and engage across the organization, from here we can discuss ideas, share and collaborate with others.

Switch back to the office365 user account portal and from App launcher under Apps, select Yammer. From Open context menu click on Open in new tab, this will redirect you to the Yammer page.



From the left-hand pane click on Create a Community, enter a name for your community. In Members search and select the users you want to add. Based on your requirement choose Public or Private access by click on Edit.





Now select the group that you newly created, click on Start a discussion. Type the content that you like to post (you can include gifs, files or any website links based on the requirement). Click on post.



Switch back to the yammer account of the user whom you added to the group and verify if the user is added to the newly created group and if the posts are visible.



We can also send a private message to Yammer.

In the yammer dashboard click on the Inbox icon and select New Private Messages.



In the Add People field, search or type the person's username. A drop-down menu of usernames that matches will appear.

Select the person's name that you want the message to be sent to, enter the message you want to send and then click on Post.



The recipient of the message will receive a notification about the received private message.

Explore through other options available in yammer.

Task 4: Explore Microsoft Stream
Microsoft Stream is an Enterprise Video service where people in your organization can upload, view, and share videos securely. You can share recordings of classes, meetings, presentations, training sessions, or other videos that aid your team's collaboration.

Open a new browser window and log in to the office365 center at https://www.office.com.

When prompted enter the username and password of the user which you have created in the the Exercise 1 task 1. For example Odl_User-DeploymentId.

In the office365 portal from the App launcher click on All apps and in the search bar search for Stream, from Open context menu click on Open in new tab, this will redirect you to the Stream web page.

In the Stream navigation bar, click on the Invite button.



In the search bar, search and select the users or groups that you would like to invite. Click on Add and then select Invite.



Now, from the top navigation bar of the Stream dashboard, click on Create button and then select Upload video option from the drop-down.



Drag and drop or select files that need to be uploaded from your device. In the Details tab, you can rename the video, add a description, and choose a thumbnail for the video.

Under the "Permissions" tab, you can configure access to the video inside of the organization.



Now click on the "Options" tab. From here you can enable/disable the ability to tag people, have a comments section, have captions, or add subtitles.



Click on Publish.



From the Stream navigation bar, click on Discover. You can browse for videos, channels, people in your organization, and groups from here.



You can explore other options available in Microsoft Stream.

To learn more about Microsoft Stream refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/stream/overview.

Task 5: Explore SharePoint
Microsoft SharePoint helps organizations share and manage content, knowledge, and applications to Empower teamwork, Quickly find information and seamlessly collaborate across the organization.

Open a new browser window and log in to the office365 center at https://www.office.com.

When prompted enter the username and password of the user which you have created in the the Exercise 1 task 1. For example Odl_User-DeploymentId.

In the office365 portal from the App launcher click on All apps. In the search bar search for SharePoint, from Open context menu click on Open in new tab. This will redirect you to the SharePoint web page.

From the top of the SharePoint page, click + Create site option.



A site creation wizard will appear on the right-hand side of the screen. Based on your requirement you can select Team site or Communication site. For now, select Team site.



Provide a name for your site

In the Privacy settings section, choose either Public - anyone in the organization can access this site or Private - only members can access this site to control who has access to your site.

Select a language for your site and click on Next



In Add group members pane, under Add additional owners box add the names or email addresses of others whom you would want to allow to manage this site. In Add members box, add the name or email address of users you want to be a member of your site and then click Finish.
Now let us add and publish a page on the newly created site.

On the home page of the site click on New, and then select Page.



Choose a page template to start with. For now, you can select Blank template and click on Create page.



Add a page name in the title area. You can customize the title area with an image, a choice of four layouts, text above the title, the ability to change the displayed author, and you can show or hide the published date.

Select Edit web part icon from here you can select the layout of your choice, Set alignment, Add text above the title.



To add an image click on Add image button in the toolbar on the left.



Choose a recent image or get an image from a web search, your site, your computer, or a link. If your organization has specified a set of approved images, you'll be able to choose from that set under Your organization.



In text box you can add the content. Click on + to add content like text, documents, video and more.



When done, click Publish. This will publish a page on your site.

To learn more about SharePoint refer to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sharepoint/introduction.

Task 6: Explore List
List helps to track information and organize your work. With a list, one can track issues, assets, routines, contacts, inventory and more using customizable views and smart rules and alerts to keep everyone in sync.

Open a new browser window and log in to the office365 center at https://www.office.com.
1.When prompted enter the username and password of the user which you have created in the the Exercise 1 task 1. For example Odl_User-DeploymentId.

In the office365 portal from the App launcher click on All apps and in the search bar search for List, from Open context menu click on Open in new tab, this will redirect you to the List web page.

On the home page of Lists click on New list.



From the Create a list page, select Blank list.

Provide a name for your list and if needed provide a description.

Choose a color and icon for your list.

In Save to select a location where you want your list to be saved. Click on Create



When your list opens, to add an item to your list, select + New.



Under Title provide a name for your new item, if needed you can also add attachments. Once done click on Save.

To add a column, select + Add column. In the dropdown, select the type of column you want.



In the Create a column panel, in the Name field, enter a title or column heading. Enter any other required information. The number of fields will vary with the column type you choose. The above example is for a Multiple lines of text field.



Select Save. In this way, you can add multiple items and columns to your list.

To rename a column, select the column which you want to rename select Column settings and select Rename. When prompted provide column name and select Save.



Now select the item which you have added click on Show actions and select Edit from here you can add value against the newly created column.





To share your list select Share near the top of the page.



Enter a name or email address. To change the access permissions you are granting to people, select Can edit and then select an option based on requirement.



In the Alert Title section, change the title for the alert if you want. Within the Send Alerts To section, enter the user names or email addresses of people you want alerts to be sent to.









Select a delivery method, choose the types of changes that you want to be notified about, how frequently you want to receive the alert. Once done select Ok.



Depending on how your site and servers are set up, whenever changes are made the person you created an alert for will be notified.

You can explore other options available in Microsoft List.

Conclusion
In this module, you have learned how to create users and assign licenses to the users from the Microsoft 365 admin center. You have also learned how to add domains and the process to access other admin centers and explored through various office365 apps.
